docs: Add docs for GenSX Cloud (#589)
gensx-inc/gensx: website/docs/src/content/cloud/index.mdx

---
title: GenSX Cloud
description: Overview of the GenSX Cloud Platform
---

# GenSX Cloud

> GenSX Cloud provides everything you need to ship production grade agents:

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning workflows too?
```suggestion
GenSX Cloud provides everything you need to ship production grade agents and workflows:
```

- **Serverless runtime**: One command to deploy all of your workflows and agents as REST APIs running on serverless infrastructure optimized for long-running agents and workflows. Support for synchronous and background invocation, streaming, and intermediate status included.
- **Cloud storage**: build stateful agents and workflows with builtin blob storage, SQL databases, and full-text + vector search indices -- all provisioned at runtime.
- **Tracing and observability**: Real-time tracing of all component inputs and outputs, tool calls, and LLM calls within your agents and workflows. Tools to visualize and debug all historic executions.
- **Collaboration**: Organize agents, workflows, and traces into projects and environments. Search and view traces and to debug historical executions.

Unlike traditional serverless offerings, GenSX Cloud is optimized for long-running workflows. Free tier workflows can run up to 5 minutes and Pro tier workflows can run for up to 60 minutes.

All of this is available on a free tier for individuals and with $20/developer pricing for teams.

## Serverless deployments

> GenSX Cloud provides serverless infrastructure optimized for agents and LLM workflows:

Reviewer: This sentence feels too repetetive with the content above

```suggestion
Serverless deployments allow you to turn your GenSX workflows and agents into APIs with a single command: 
```

- **Generated REST APIs**: `gensx deploy` generates a REST API complete with schema and validation for every workflow in your project.
- **Long-running**: GenSX Cloud is optimized for long running LLM workloads. Workflows can run up to 5 minutes on the free tier and 60 minutes on the Pro tier.

> - **Millisecond-level cold starts**:

Reviewer: missing content here

> Serverless deployments are billed pay-second, with 50,000 seconds included per month in the free tier for individuals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless deployments are billed per-second, with 50,000 seconds included per month in the free tier for individuals.
```

Projects are deployed with a single CLI command:

```bash

> $ npx gensx deploy ./src/workflows.tsx

Reviewer: i'd recommend splitting this into a separate code block for clarity

✔ Building workflow using Docker
✔ Generating schema

✔ Successfully built project

ℹ Using project name from gensx.yaml: support-tools
✔ Deploying project to GenSX Cloud (Project: support-tools)

✔ Successfully deployed project to GenSX Cloud

Dashboard: https://app.gensx.com/gensx/support-tools/default/workflows

Available workflows:
- ChatAgent
- TextToSQLWorkflow
- RAGWorkflow
- AnalyzeDiscordWorkflow

Project: support-tools
```

> Each workflow is available via APIs for synchronous and asynchronous invocation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each workflow is available via both a synchronous and asynchronous API:
```

```
// For synchronous and streaming calls:

> https://api.gensx.com/org/{orgName}/projects/{projectName}/environments/{environmentName}/workflows/{workflowName}/run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://api.gensx.com/org/{orgName}/projects/{projectName}/environments/{environmentName}/workflows/{workflowName}
```

State can be long-lived and shared across workflows and agents, or it can be provisioned ephemerally on a per-request basis.

### Blob storage

GenSX Cloud provides blob storage for persisting unstructured data like JSON, text, and binary files. With the `BlobProvider` component and `useBlob` hook, you can easily store and retrieve data across workflow executions.

Common scenarios enabled by blob storage include:

- Persistent chat thread history.
- Simple memory implementations.
- Storing generated audio, video, and photo files.

```tsx
import { BlobProvider, useBlob } from "@gensx/storage";

// Store and retrieve data with the useBlob hook
const ChatWithMemory = gensx.Component(
  "ChatWithMemory",
  async ({ userInput, threadId }) => {
    // Get access to a blob at a specific path
    const blob = useBlob(`chats/${threadId}.json`);

    // Load existing data (returns null if it doesn't exist)
    const history = (await blob.getJSON()) ?? [];

    // Add new data
    history.push({ role: "user", content: userInput });

    // Save updated data
    await blob.putJSON(history);

    return "Data stored successfully";
  },
);

// Just wrap your workflow with BlobProvider

> const Workflow = ({ userInput, threadId }) => (

Reviewer: missing the gensx.Component syntax

Reviewer: also still seeing a lot of `gensx.Component` without the type definitions

- **Comprehensive component visibility**: Each component in your workflow automatically records its inputs and outputs, including:

  - All LLM calls with full prompts, parameters, and responses
  - Every tool invocation with input arguments and return values
  - All intermediate steps and state changes in your agents and workflows

- **Real-time monitoring**: Watch your workflows execute step by step in real time, which is especially valuable for debugging long-running agents or complex multi-step workflows.

- **Historical execution data**: Access and search through all past executions to diagnose issues, analyze performance patterns, and understand user interactions over time.

- **Project and environment organization**: Traces are automatically organized by project (a collection of related workflows in a codebase) and environment (such as development, staging, or production), making it easy to find relevant executions.

```tsx
// Traces are automatically captured when workflows are executed
// No additional instrumentation required

> const result = await MyWorkflow.run(
>   { input: "User query" },
>   printUrl: true // log the tracing URL
> );

Reviewer: I think we need extra brackets right? 
```suggestion
const result = await MyWorkflow.run(
  { input: "User query" },
  { printUrl: true } // log the tracing URL
);
```

```

The trace viewer provides multiple ways to analyze workflow execution:

- **Timeline view**: See how long each component took and their sequence of execution
- **Component tree**: Navigate the hierarchical structure of your workflow
- **Input/output inspector**: Examine the exact data flowing between components
- **Error highlighting**: Quickly identify where failures occurred

![Component trace](/cloud/component-trace.png)

For more details see the full [observability reference](/docs/cloud/observability).

## Local development

GenSX provides a seamless development experience that mirrors the cloud environment, allowing you to build and test your workflows locally before deployment:

> ### Development Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Development server
```

✅ Server is running. Press Ctrl+C to stop.
```

### Local storage providers

GenSX provides local implementations for most storage providers, enabling development without cloud dependencies:

- **BlobProvider**: Uses local filesystem storage (`.gensx/blobs`) for development
- **DatabaseProvider**: Uses local SQLite databases (`.gensx/databases`) for development
- **SearchProvider**: Connects to the cloud vector search service even in development mode

The local APIs mirror the cloud APIs exactly, so code that works locally will work identically when deployed:

```tsx
// This component works the same locally and in the cloud
const SaveData = gensx.Component<{ key: string; data: any }, null>(
  "SaveData",
  async ({ key, data }) => {
    // Blob storage works the same locally (filesystem) and in cloud
    const blob = useBlob(`data/${key}.json`);
    await blob.putJSON(data);
    return null;
  },
);
```

For more details see the full [local development reference](/docs/cloud/local-development).

## Projects & environments

GenSX Cloud organizes your workflows and deployments using a flexible structure of projects and environments:

> - **Projects**: A collection of related workflows that are deployed together, typically corresponding to a codebase or application. Projects help you organize and manage your AI components as cohesive units.

Reviewer: The current formatting makes this hard to read because the following paragraphs don't get nested under the bullet
```suggestion
**Projects** are a collection of related workflows that are deployed together, typically corresponding to a codebase or application. Projects help you organize and manage your AI components as cohesive units.
```

> - **Projects**: A collection of related workflows that are deployed together, typically corresponding to a codebase or application. Projects help you organize and manage your AI components as cohesive units.
> 
> Projects are defined by the `projectName` field in your `gensx.yaml` configuration file at the root of your codebase:
> 
> ```yaml
> # gensx.yaml
> projectName: my-chatbot-app
> ```

Reviewer: The current formatting makes this hard to read because the following paragraphs don't get nested under the bullet

```suggestion
**Projects** are a collection of related workflows that are deployed together, typically corresponding to a codebase or application. Projects help you organize and manage your AI components as cohesive units.

Projects are defined by the `projectName` field in your `gensx.yaml` configuration file at the root of your codebase:

```yaml
# gensx.yaml
projectName: my-chatbot-app
```
```

> - **Environments**: Sub-groupings within a project that allow you to deploy multiple instances of the same workflows with different configuration. This supports the common development pattern of separating dev, staging, and production environments.

Reviewer: same as above 
```suggestion
**Environments** are sub-groupings within a project that allow you to deploy multiple instances of the same workflows with different configuration. This supports the common development pattern of separating dev, staging, and production environments.
```
